docs(datasource/deb): document steps for Artifactory (#31110)
renovatebot/renovate: lib/modules/datasource/deb/readme.md

Renovate uses the Debian datasource to update packages from Debian repositories.
The `debian` datasource is meant for projects that:

- depend on Debian-based systems, or
- depend on Debian-based distributions, like Ubuntu

>   By default, Renovate does not detect Debian dependencies.
>   For Renovate to update dependencies, you must combine the Debian datasource with [regex managers](../../manager/regex/index.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

By default, Renovate does not detect Debian dependencies.
For Renovate to update dependencies, you must combine the Debian datasource with [regex managers](../../manager/regex/index.md).
```

> **Registry URL**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set URL when using a Debian repository
```

This section needs a heading.

The `**Example**` bold text in the same section should be changed to a sub-heading: `### Example`.

> The Debian datasource enables Renovate to update packages from Debian repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renovate uses the Debian datasource to update packages from Debian repositories.
```

> It is ideal for projects that depend on Debian-based systems or distributions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `debian` datasource is meant for projects that:

- depend on Debian-based systems, or
- depend on Debian-based distributions, like Ubuntu
```

Will the `debian` datasource work with Ubuntu distribution stuff?

- If yes, apply suggestion
- If no: remove the `, like Ubuntu` bit from my suggestion, then apply

> You will need to combine Debian datasource with [regex managers](../../manager/regex/index.md) to update dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Renovate will do nothing when it sees Debian dependencies.
For Renovate to update dependencies, you must combine the Debian datasource with [regex managers](../../manager/regex/index.md).
```

> You will need to combine Debian datasource with [regex managers](../../manager/regex/index.md) to update dependencies.

Reviewer: Good catch! I replaced `can not detect` with `does not detect` in my improved suggestion though.

**Registry URL**

> To use a Debian repository with the datasource, you need a properly formatted URL with specific query parameters as `registryUrl`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a Debian repository with the datasource, you must set a properly formatted URL with specific query parameters as `registryUrl`:
```

- depend on Debian-based systems, or
- depend on Debian-based distributions, like Ubuntu

By default, Renovate does not detect Debian dependencies.
For Renovate to update dependencies, you must combine the Debian datasource with [regex managers](../../manager/regex/index.md).

> ## Set URL when using a Debian repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set URL when using a Debian repository

```

      "matchStrings": [
        "#\\s*renovate:\\s*?depName=(?<depName>.*?)?\\sENV .*?_VERSION=\"(?<currentValue>.*)\"\\s"
      ],

>       "registryUrlTemplate": "https://deb.debian.org/debian?suite=stable&components=main,contrib,non-free&binaryArch=amd64",

Reviewer 2: In the implementation MR, @viceice told remove it since this is the default.

Author: I have changed the example so it makes actual use of the template part of `registryUrlTemplate`

```

When the apt package for `gcc` is updated, Renovate updates the environment variable.

> ```json title="Overwrite deb registryUrl via packageRule"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json title="Override deb registryUrl with a packageRules entry"
```

{
  "packageRules": [
    {
      "matchDatasources": ["deb"],
      "matchPackageNames": ["gcc-11"],
      "registryUrls": [

>         "https://deb.debian.org/debian?suite=stable&components=main,contrib,non-free&binaryArch=amd64"

Reviewer 2: Should we add an info that multiple registiryUrls are supported and the merge Strategy is used?

Author: The first fact is true for all datasources the second makes more sense to add to the content table automatically. 
Like we do already with e.g. customRegistry

      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Artifactory

> This datasource can also be used with Artifactory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The debian datasource can be used with Artifactory.
```

> The supported repository types are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Supported repository types

The `debian` datasource supports these repository types:
```

- virtual
- local
- remote

> If you are using Artifactory, you can use the `deb` datasource with following `registryUrl` format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set a `registryUrl`

To use Artifactory, first configure the `deb` datasource by setting the `registryUrl`.
```

> ```

Reviewer: Can you add this bit after the three backticks for the codeblock?

` title="Example of valid registryUrl format"`

> https://<host>:<port>/artifactory/<repository-slug>?suite=<suite>&components=<components>&binaryArch=<binaryArch>

Reviewer 2: I don't think it doesn't matter if release or suite is used, but it should be consistent with the part below.
```suggestion
https://<host>:<port>/artifactory/<repository-slug>?release=<release>&components=<components>&binaryArch=<binaryArch>
```

> https://artifactory.example.com:443/artifactory/debian/?release=bookworm&components=main,contrib,non-free&binaryArch=amd64

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
https://artifactory.example.com:443/artifactory/debian?release=bookworm&components=main,contrib,non-free&binaryArch=amd64
```

Author: Good catch

```

> Additionally, if the Artifactory requires authentication, you need to set up a host rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Authenticating to Artifactory

If Artifactory asks for authentication, you must set up a host rule.
```

> Use the "Set Me Up" feature in Artifactory to generate a password for Renovate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, generate a password for Renovate with Artifactory's "Set Me Up" feature.
```

> Further, you have to set up a host rule to authenticate against Artifactory.
> Use the "Set Me Up" feature in Artifactory to generate a password for Renovate.
> Then add the following configuration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, if the Artifactory requires authentication, you need to set up a host rule. 
Use the "Set Me Up" feature in Artifactory to generate a password for Renovate. 
Then, add the following configuration:
```

Author: I have never personally seen an Artifactory instance which allows anonymous access, but better safe than sorry

Reviewer 2: Oh I meant password/token based auth 😅.

> ```json title="Artifactory host rule configuration with username and password"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json title="Example Artifactory host rule configuration, with username and password"
```

```

When the apt package for `gcc` is updated, Renovate updates the environment variable.

```json title="Override deb registryUrl with a packageRules entry"
{
  "packageRules": [
    {
      "matchDatasources": ["deb"],
      "matchPackageNames": ["gcc-11"],
      "registryUrls": [
        "https://deb.debian.org/debian?suite=stable&components=main,contrib,non-free&binaryArch=amd64"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Artifactory

The Debian datasource can be used with Artifactory.

### Supported repository types

The `debian` datasource supports these repository types:

- virtual
- local
- remote

### Set a `registryUrl`

To use Artifactory, first configure the `deb` datasource by setting the `registryUrl`.

```title="Example of valid registryUrl format"
https://<host>:<port>/artifactory/<repository-slug>?release=<release>&components=<components>&binaryArch=<binaryArch>

> https://artifactory.example.com:443/artifactory/debian?release=bookworm&components=main,contrib,non-free&binaryArch=amd64

Reviewer 3: @secustor It should be noted somewhere that these are fake URLs (the URL parameters after `?` are not valid parameters for Debian/Artifactory URLs, they are only used to configure renovate).

This means they can not be tested for validity by entering them in the browser without removing the params first. Unlike, for example, the nuget URL, which works when entered in the browser.

This had me scratching my head for a few minutes until I read the renovate source code and saw that they are parsed out before actually accessing the URL.

Author: They should be ignored by the backends, though it makes sense to be explicit about that. 

I have added a note panel regarding for that.

Reviewer 3: Thanks!
